+++
title = "The Infinite Game"
date = 2026-05-10
[extra]
author = "Simon Sinek"
+++

Football is a finite game - the endpoint is defined, the way of choosing winners is defined.
Business and life are infinite game - there is no definition of winners.

To maintain a infinite mindset, a few practices are necessary:
- Just Cause
- Courage to Lead
- Existential Flexibility
- Worthy Rival
- Trusting Team

Just Cause - why you are doing what you are doing.
A Just Cause is different from Why.
Why is concerned with the past - what made you do what you are doing.
A Just Cause is about the future - the ideal state which you envision.

A Just Cause should satisfy the following criteria:
- For something - affirmative and optimistic
- Service oriented - for the primary benefit of others
- Inclusive - open to all those who would like to contribute
- Resilient - able to endure political, technological and cultural change
- Idealistic - big, bold and ultimately unachievable

Growth, corporate social responsibility or service are not Just Cause.
Money is the fuel to advance a Cause.

The leader of the company (CEO) is the Keeper of the Cause or Vision.
The COO / CFO are the ones responsible for running the day-to-day operations of the firm.
They make the vision a reality.
The CEO and the COO/CFO has to work in tandem to advance the cause.

Many a times, when the COO/CFO gets promoted to CEO, they often fail because they lacked the vision.
For example, Steve Balmer was good at being a COO but not as CEO as the latter needed vision.
But he thrived when working along with Bill Gates - the infinite-minded partner.

In Milton Friedman capitalism, the role of a business is to engage in activities which increases its profits as long as it is in a legal way.
But it is a very finite mindset of view.
Company exists to advance something - technology, quality of life or whatever.
When a CEO's package is tied to share price (which benefits the shareholders), the CEO is expected to take short-term decisions which make share price go up next year.
This short-term vision may end up with long-term consequences of the decision and might be harmful to employees or customers or society and the environment.

A business must:
1. advance a purpose
2. protect people - operate in a way that protects employees, the customer and the environment in which we live and work
3. generate profit - money is the fuel to remain viable, so that it continue to advance the first two priorities.

To run a business, will and resources are needed.
Resources are the tangible things, usually money and capital.
Will is the human capital - it encompasses morale, motivation, inspiration, commitment etc.
Will represents the sum of all human elements that contribute to the health of the organization and it is generated by the company culture.

A finite minded leader gives priorities like 1. Growth 2. Customers 3. Employees - notice the order.
An infinite minded company put people first.
Organization that prioritize will before resources tend to be more resilient when hard times strike.


Trusting teams - a trusting teams is a key factor in building a business with infinite mindset.
In a trusting team, people feel safe to share their vulnerabilities.
The Navy SEALs would rather have a medium performer of high trust than a high perform of low trust (toxic team member).

If someone's performance is struggling or if they are acting in a way that is negatively impacting team dynamics, the primary question a leader must ask is `Are they coachable?`
The goal of a leader is to ensure that our people have the skills - technical / human / leadership - so that they are equipped to work to their natural best and be a valuable asset to the team.
Only when a team member is uncoachable - resistant to feedback and takes no responsibility should we consider removing them from the team.

One of the primary job of any leader is to make new leaders.

Ethical Fading - the process in which ethics fade from an organisation, where it is easy to do the unethical thing to advance one's own interest, often at the expense of others while falsely believing that they have not compromised their own moral principles.
It often starts with  small, seemingly innocuous transgressions that when left unchecked continue to grow and compound.
When ethical fading happens in a company, doing the unjust thing becomes the normal and people don't realize that what they are doing is wrong.
They become self-delusional, unaware that they are doing wrong because it has become the norm to do the unethical thing.

Organisations with a finite mindset are susceptible to ethical fading as they place excessive focus on quarterly or annual financial performance.
And when ethical fading happens, it will cause big issues in the future.

Worthy rival - helps you focus on your weakness and gives you area where you can improve upon.
A worthy rival needs to be chosen strategically - it need not be the biggest player in the market or the most profitable company.
It must be one which shows your weakness and pushed us to constantly improve, which is essential if we want to be strong enough to stay in the game.

Traditional competition forces us to take an attitude of winning.
A worthy rival inspires us to take an attitude of improvement.
With the former, we focus on outcome.
In the latter, we focus on process.
They help us get clear on why we do it and focus on our cause.

Existential flexibility is the capacity to initiate an extreme disruption to a business model or strategic course in order to more effectively advance a just cause.
When an infinite minded leader leader with a clear sense of cause looks to the future and sees that the path they are on will significantly restrict their ability to advance their cause, they flex.
They flex to advance their cause in a better way, like in adopting a new technology.
An Existential flex recreates a passion for something new at a time when a company is already enjoying success.

When Apple saw Xerox PARC's GUI, they decided to change course from their then product direction in which they had already invested millions of dollars and countless man-hours.
Their cause was to empower individuals and a GUI could help advance the cause better.
A finite minded leader would have not done it considering the investments made in the existing direction.

Kodak, when it was founded by George Eastman, it's Just Cause was to making photography accessible to everyone.
When they first invented digital camera in 1975, the senior executives in Kodak rejected it as they will lose money because in the traditional camera business where Kodak sold the films and every part required to take the picture.
When Kodak invented digital camera first, they have forgotten the Just Cause and where focused on profits.
Selling digital camera will make them less profits because when they sell film camera, they also films and a whole lot of assorted items with it.
Kodak forgot the Just Cause and then, it went bankrupt.

In our life, we play multiple infinite games - careers, parenting, friendship, learning etc.
To live a life with an infinite mindset means thinking about second and third order effects of our decisions.
In the game of life, the goal is not to win - it is to perpetuate the game, to live a life of service.
There is no single, greater contribution in the Infinite Game than to raise children who will continue to grow and serve others long after we are gone.
